# IJP Description
The Opportunity:

We are currently seeking an experienced professional to join our team in the role of Lead Consultant Specialist. 

The Lead Consultant Specialist is accountable for enabling the technical development and run-time operation of cloud products and services. The job holder contributes in successful delivery of cloud projects by providing technical/application guidance to project teams to on-board different platform solutions. The responsibilities entail areas such as senior stakeholder management, client communication, vendor management, requirement analysis, project rollout, portfolio cost and resources management, technology update and knowledge sharing.

What you’ll do:

- Looking for an experienced and motivated GCP evangelist to create innovative solutions in the GCP Cloud for Financial Services using Google cloud services DataFlow, PubSub, BigQuery etc
 - A successful candidate will bring thought leadership depth of experience with GCP services strategy and hands on experience with GCP centric architectures Migration applications to GCP and a willingness to be both a leader and contributor to the overall GCP eco system.
 - Minimum 8-10 years design implementation experience with distributed applications and systems. Hands-on experience with architecting solutions on GCP.
 - Experience using GCP Cloud Services Native services to implement and propose solution to finance industry customers Prior Experience as GCP Architect across multiple projects with go live milestones Hands on seasoned solutions architect experience and architecting designing and implementing cloud based. Cloud native solutions Knowledge in Ansible Docker Kubernetes is preferred Prior experience having interactions and influence with CTO.
- Design and innovate technical solutions services for clients’ requirements. Own the architectural and technical directions and delivery quality. This role is responsible to manage activities on Design and Development (CTB) as well as Production Processing Support (RTB) fronts.Provide support across the end-to-end delivery, utilising the skills and expertise to carry out software development, testing and operational support activities with the ability to move between these according to demand.
- Create robust technical design and a strategy for development of new components to meet requirements. Work on test plans including unit and integration tests, within automated test environments to ensure code quality aspect.
- Working with Ops, Dev and Test Engineers to ensure operational issues (performance, operator intervention, alerting, design defect related issues, etc.) are identified and addressed at all stages of a product or service release / change.
- Role demands working in shifts and provide On-Call support to production system. Ensure service resilience, service sustainability and recovery time objectives are met for all the software solutions delivered. Actively drive the mandatory exercises from time to time on resilience, recovery, and service management.Responsible for automating the continuous integration / continuous delivery pipeline within a DevOps.
 
**Qualifications**
 
- Cloud engineering certification or equivalent is an advantage
- Working knowledge of Finance IT area is preferred
- Familiar with agile scrum processes
- Strong problem-solving, communication, and presentation skills
- Experience with development, deployment, and operations in a cloud environment, with preference given to experience with Google Cloud Platform
- Ability to work effectively in a global team structure and embrace diversity
- Excellent written and verbal communication skills
- Candidate having strong knowledge on cloud computing technologies, especially on GCP (BigQuery/GCS/Cloud Functions/EMF) and able to develop solution using Cloud Technologies.
- Have a passion for technology – this represents a great opportunity to broaden experience and gain new skills, it really helps if the candidate has a genuine interest for the technology
- Experience of the FCDP or Finance On The Cloud Programme.
- Strong hands-on knowledge on BigQuery
- Understanding of Airflow / Pubsub/ Cloud data fusion/ Cloud data flow.
- Understanding of Cloud Data proc/ Jupyter Notebook/Looker is added advantage
- Should have capability to evaluate and explore options (Technology/Tools etc) for implementing solution in cloud and might have to quickly switch and adopt with new requirements as per project demands.
- Should own technical delivery, requirement analysis, estimation, design, development, testing, deployment & post-deployment support
- Actively contribute in design workshop, code reviews, scrum of scrum meetings and troubleshooting technical issues
 - Ensure implementation of continuous integration / continuous delivery pipeline within a DevOps Product/Service team driving a culture of continuous improvement
- Ensuring compliance with all relevant IT controls and standards including relevant Service Management Standard.